
Search Webhooks...
Overview
Introduction
Webhooks are a powerful feature of respond.io, which allow for real-time communication between the platform and external systems or services. When an event occurs within respond.io, such as the creation of a new contact or the receipt of a new message, the platform will send an HTTP request to a specified URL, known as a "webhook endpoint." This URL can be set up to point to a third-party service or database, allowing for seamless integration and automation of actions in response to events within respond.io.

With webhooks, users can customize how they want to receive notifications and take actions in response to events that occur within respond.io. For example, when a new contact is created, a webhook can be set up to automatically add that contact to a mailing list in a connected email marketing service. Webhooks provide a flexible and efficient way for users to integrate respond.io with other systems and services, streamlining their workflow and increasing their productivity.

Configuration
Webhooks can be configured in Settings > Integrations > Webhooks.

Each organization is limited to creating a maximum of 35 webhook endpoints.

Please contact us if you would like to increase your webhook endpoint limit for your organization.

Events
Event	Description
Contact Tag Updated	Triggers when tag(s) are removed or added on a contact.
New Contact	Triggers when new contact is created.
Contact Updated	Triggers when any contact fields of a contact are updated.
Conversation Opened	Triggers when a conversation is opened.
Conversation Closed	Triggers when a conversation is closed.
New Comment	Triggers when a new comment is posted to a conversation.
New Outgoing Message	Triggers when a message is sent.
New Incoming Message	Triggers when a message is received.
Contact Assignee Updated	Triggers when the assignee of a contact is updated.
Lifecycle Updated	Triggers when contact lifecycle is updated.
Call Ended	Triggers when a call ends.
Verifying Payload
Webhook signature is a common security practice where it is used to verify whether the incoming request is from a trusted and intended party.

Respond.io adds a X-Webhook-Signature to the request headers of every client endpoint call. The client can verify the authenticity of the webhook by comparing this signature. The signature is constructed using the HMAC-SHA256 algorithm and the signing key (signingKey) obtained during configuration, along with the JSON stringified version of the request body. The signature is encoded as base64.

Example
Below is a working example on how to verify the webhook signature in Node.js & Python:

javascript
python
php
const express = require('express');
const bodyParser = require('body-parser');
const { createHmac } = require('crypto');
const app = express()

app.use(express.json());
app.use(bodyParser.urlencoded({ extended: true }));

app.post('/', (req, res) => {
    const signature = req.get('X-Webhook-Signature');
    const signingKey = 'my-signing-key';

    const expectedSignature = createHmac('sha256', signingKey)
        .update(JSON.stringify(req.body))
        .digest('base64')

    if (signature !== expectedSignature) {
        return res.status(400).json({
            message: 'Invalid signature'
        });
    }

    res.json({
        message: 'ok'
    });
});

app.listen(3000, () => console.log('Listening on port 3000'));
Error Handling
If the client endpoint does not return a 200 response code for a request call, respond.io will consider it as an error. If the number of errors exceeds 30 per 30 minutes, the webhook endpoint will be deactivated.

Ensure our IP addresses (52.74.35.155, 18.138.31.163, 54.169.155.20) are not blocked.

Retry Mechanism
If a webhook request does not yield a 200 response code within 5 seconds, it will try again. Three retries are attempted at intervals of 30 seconds, 60 seconds, and 90 seconds, respectively, until a 200 response code is received.

Overview
Introduction
Configuration
Events
Verifying Payload
Example
Error Handling
Retry Mechanism
respond.io
Home
Webhooks
Schemas
powered by Stoplight
